:books: DOCS: Add local Sphinx extension documentation (#1058)
executablebooks/jupyter-book: docs/advanced/sphinx.md

```
````

### Local Sphinx Extensions

> As detailed in its documentation, [Sphinx is able to use local extensions](https://www.sphinx-doc.org/en/master/development/tutorials/helloworld.html#using-the-extension) by adding additional directories to the [Python path](https://docs.python.org/3/using/cmdline.html#envvar-PYTHONPATH). At present, this functionality is not available within Jupyter Book.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Sphinx is able to use local extensions](https://www.sphinx-doc.org/en/master/development/tutorials/helloworld.html#using-the-extension) by adding additional directories to the [Python path](https://docs.python.org/3/using/cmdline.html#envvar-PYTHONPATH). At present, this functionality is not available within Jupyter Book.
```

> However, this limitation can be circumvented if one installs their Sphinx extension locally using `pip`. First, write a minimal `setup.py` as follows:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
However, you can use a local Sphinx extension by using `pip` and installing the package locally. Below we'll document how you can create a local `pip`-installable Sphinx extension.

First, write a minimal `setup.py` as follows:
```

```python
from setuptools import setup

setup(
	name='my_sphinx_ext'
)
```

> For further documentation on the purposes and configuration of `setup.py`, please refer to [the official Python documentation on setup scripts](https://docs.python.org/3/distutils/setupscript.html).

Reviewer: ````suggestion
```{seealso}
For further documentation on the purposes and configuration of `setup.py`, please refer to [the official Python documentation on setup scripts](https://docs.python.org/3/distutils/setupscript.html).
```
````

Next, create a new directory with your extension's name (in this case `my_sphinx_ext`) within the same directory as `setup.py`. Afterwards, create an *empty* file called `__init__.py` within this directory. If you are on Linux, simply `touch my_sphinx_ext/__init__.py`. The result should be:

```
setup.py
my_sphinx_ext/
└──__init__.py
```

Then, execute `pip install -e .` within the directory containing `setup.py`. This will install `my_sphinx_ext` as a local Python package.

It's then as easy as updating your `_config.yml` with your new extension:

```yaml
  sphinx:
    extra_extensions:
    - my_sphinx_ext
```

> However, your extension does nothing! This last step is left up for the user. :smile: Try following [Sphinx's extension tutorials](https://www.sphinx-doc.org/en/master/development/tutorials/index.html) and applying what is taught there to a local extension within Jupyter Book.

Reviewer: ````suggestion

:::{admonition,tip} More information on creating Sphinx extensions
The extension in this example is `pip`-installable, but does nothing! For more information about how to create your own Sphinx extension, try following [Sphinx's extension tutorials](https://www.sphinx-doc.org/en/master/development/tutorials/index.html).
:::
````
